# cs465-fullstack
CS-465 Full Stack Development with MEAN

The different types of frontend development used in this full stack project included Express HTML, Javascript, and the Single-Page Application. We started with static HTML pages and began to modify them in order to create an application that is able to render data dynamically to best fit the needs of the client. Express HTML featured static webpages, with all page information coded into the HTML, but over the course of the term we were able to make changes to the static HTML to dynamically load and display JSON data which is much easier to edit for the client via the SPA. The backend featured to NoSql Mongo Database due to the scalability, performance, and ease of use. 

JSON and Javascript differ as Javascript is what allows the website to look and feel responsive to the user where JSON is used to pass data from the server to a web page. Javascript and JSON work together as JSON allows for easier rendering of information in a dynamic website, much of which utilizing Javascript to display the JSON data. During the refactoring process we took the trip data and made it into a JSON file that would then be rendered dynamically in the HTML. Initially, we could make changes in the JSON file directly, however, once the APIs were set up we were able to make changes in the SPA, Postman, and MongoDB. This allows for the client to maintain and update their website easier, without having to constantly go into the HTML to change, edit, or delete trip information.

The API endpoints are secured by JSON web tokens that are generated and passed when a user's login information is authenticated. The endpoints must be secured with proper user authentication to make sure that endpoints aren't exposed to users that lack the credentials to view such. Login credentials have been encrypted to ensure information is secure and not stored in plain text to prevent unauthorized access. 

This course helped in reaching professional goals by starting to determine which field I want to go into. I had never considered fullstack development as much as other fields, however, being hands on throughout the course, I truly fell in love with the process (even the parts that had me wanting to pull my hair out). Seeing the application come together and come to life each week felt truly rewarding as I was able to see progress and utilize skills I have developed throughout my degree program. 
